Script - add and clarify using UI for Fields/variables (#31495)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/script.markdown

  <img src='/images/integrations/script/script_modes.jpg'>
</p>

### Passing variables to scripts

As part of the service, variables can be passed along to a script so they become available within templates in that script.

> To configure a script to accept variables using the UI, the variables can be added as Fields in the script editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a script to accept variables using the UI, the variables can be added as fields in the script editor.
```

> 1. In the script editor, in the 3-dots menu, click Add Fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the script editor, in the 3-dots menu, select **Add fields**.
```
Tiny style tweaks. 
- we use select instead of click, as this is less [mouse-specific](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/c/click).
- we use bold to markup UI elements.

> 2. A new section called Fields is added between the basic information and Sequence sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A new section called **Fields** is added between the basic information and **Sequence** sections.
```

> 3. Choose the name, type, and options of each desired Field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter a name and choose type and options of each desired field.
```

> 4. Fields set up here will be shown in other UI editors, such as in an Automation that calls the Script as inputs depending on the type of Field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Fields set up here will be shown in other UI editors, such as in an automation that calls the script as inputs depending on the type of field.
```
Automation, scripts, and fields are also generic concepts. In this case, they do not need to be capitalized. When referring to a specific UI string, we would write it exactly as is. 
See also MS Style Guide on [capitalization](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/capitalization).

> 5. To use the Field data, use them as templates using the "field key name" when they were added, as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. To use the field data, use them as templates using the **Field key name** when they were added, as shown in the example below.
```

Using the variables in the script requires the use of templates:

{% raw %}
```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
script:
  notify_pushover:
    description: "Send a pushover notification"
    fields:
      title:
        description: "The title of the notification"
        example: "State change"
      message:
        description: "The message content"
        example: "The light is on!"
    sequence:
      - condition: state
        entity_id: switch.pushover_notifications
        state: "on"
      - service: notify.pushover
        data:
          title: "{{ title }}"
          message: "{{ message }}"
```
{% endraw %}

> Aside from the Automation editor UI, variables can be passed to Scripts within the service data. This can be used either by calling the script directly or the generic `script.turn_on` service. The difference is described in [Waiting for Script to Complete](#waiting-for-script-to-complete). All service data will be made available as variables in templates, even if not specified as Fields in the Script. This example shows calling the Script directly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aside from the automation editor UI, variables can be passed to scripts within the service data. This can be used either by calling the script directly or the generic `script.turn_on` service. The difference is described in [Waiting for Script to Complete](#waiting-for-script-to-complete). All service data will be made available as variables in templates, even if not specified as fields in the script. This example shows how to the script directly:
```

    from: "off"
    to: "on"
  action:
    service: script.turn_on
    target:
      entity_id: script.notify_pushover
    data:
      variables:
        title: "State change"
        message: "The light is on!"
```
{% endraw %}

<div class='note'>

> Script variables that may be used by templates include those provided from the configuration as Fields, those that are passed as data when started from a service, and the `this` variable whose value is a dictionary of the current script's state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Script variables that may be used by templates include the following: 
- those provided from the configuration as fields
- those that are passed as data when started from a service, 
- the `this` variable the value of which is a dictionary of the current script's state.
```

    description: "Turns on the bedroom lights and then the living room lights after a delay"
    variables:
      turn_on_entity: group.living_room
    fields:
      minutes:
        name: Minutes
        description: "The amount of time to wait before turning on the living room lights"
        selector:
          number:
            min: 0
            max: 60
            step: 1
            unit_of_measurement: minutes
            mode: slider
    # If called again while still running (probably in delay step), start over.
    mode: restart
    sequence:
      # This is Home Assistant Script Syntax
      - event: LOGBOOK_ENTRY
        event_data:
          name: Paulus
          message: is waking up
          entity_id: device_tracker.paulus
          domain: light
      - alias: "Bedroom lights on"
        service: light.turn_on
        target:
          entity_id: group.bedroom
        data:
          brightness: 100
      - delay:
          # supports seconds, milliseconds, minutes, hours
          minutes: "{{ minutes }}"
      - alias: "Living room lights on"
        service: light.turn_on
        target:
          entity_id: "{{ turn_on_entity }}"
```
{% endraw %}

> ## Video tutorial

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Video tutorial

```
